Reviewing Data Scientists Toolbox for CLI


CLI commands follow this recipe: command flags arguments.
command is the CLI commnad which does a specific task.
Flags are options we give to the command to trigger certain behaviors, preceded
by a -
arguments can be what the commnad is going to modify, or other options for the
command.
depending on the command, there can be zero or more flags and arguments.


ls lists files and folders in the current directory
ls -a lists hidden and unhidden files and folders.
ls -al lists details for hidden and unhidden fiels and folders.
Notice that -a and -l are flags (they're preceded by a -)
They can be combined into the flag: -al



cp is for copying
cp takes as its first argument a file, and as its second the path to where I want
the file to be copied.


cp can also be used for copying the contents of directories, but I must use the
-r flag the to copy the entire directory.

-r stands for recursive.


mv stands for "move"
with mv I can move files between directories.
mv can be used to rename files


git is a version control software
that allows me to control and manage the revisions of projects that I am wokring on


Basics of GitHub
allows users to push and pull their local repos to and from a remote repo on the
web
provides users with a homepage that displays their public repos
Users' repos are backed up on the GitHub server in case something happens to the
local copies.
Social aspect allows users to follow one another and share projects.


creating a local copy of a remote repo

open terminal
create a directory on my computer where I will store a copy of the repo.
mkdir ~/practice_repo


~ before file paths goes from the root to the specified directory.

Initialize a local Git repo in this directory
git init

now I point my local repo at the remote repo I just created on the GitHub server.

git remote add origin https://github.com/Marktc1993/practice_repo.git


To make a local copy of a forked repo
I can clone the repo, with the forked copt I now have a copy of the desired repo
on my GitHub account. Now I need to make a local copy of the repo on my computer
this process is called cloning and can be done using the following command.

git clone https://github.com/Marktc1993/practicerepo.git
 clone to current working directory.


Adding
Suppose I want to add new files to a local repo under version control.
I need to let Git know that they need to be tracked
git add # adds all new files.
git add -u # updates tracking for files that changed names or were deleted
git add -A # does both of the previous
THESE NEED TO BE DONE BEFORE COMMITTING


Committing
I have changes I want to commit to be saved as an intermediate version.
I type the command

git commit -m "message" # where message is a useful description of what I did.

This only updates my local repo, not the remote repo on GitHub.

Pushing
I have saved local commits I would like to update on the remote (Github)
I type the command

git push



Branches:
Sometimes I am working on a project with a version being used by many people.
I may not want to edit that version.
So I can create a branch with the command.

git checkout -b branchname

To see what branch I am on type:

git branch

To switch back to the master branch type:

git checkout master


git documentation http://git-scm.com/doc
GitHub help https://help.github.com/
